An Overview of myLinkedIn and LinkingOut --- Facilitating a vCards Based Edge-to-Edge Model

June, 16, 2025 --- Mohsen Banan --- linkedin@mohsen.1.banan.byname.net

Dear Fellow LinkedIn Member,

I am very much against use of the commercial American model of social media.
That is why I don't use any of Facebook, Instagram, TokTok, etc. I have been
using LinkedIn for about 20 years. I joined LinkedIn on January 19, 2006. My
view and use of LinkedIn at that time was that of a "Business Cards Exchange"
with colleagues, friends and family. I would access my Connection's Contact-Info
(email-address, phone number) and then interact with them *outside* of LinkedIn.
Let's call that "LinkingOut". This LinkingOut end-to-end (edge-to-edge) model of
interactions is far more private than the native LinkedIn model. The only pieces
of information that I would put on LinkedIn are my public professional info.

Over the past 20 years, things have changed. Micorsoft's LinkedIn is well on its
way to fully adopting the commercial American model of social media.

I want to also preserve the old "Business Cards Exchange" model of LinkingOut.
This post is about what I have done about that.

I have put together a python package called "myLinkedIn". It converts your
LinkedIn data into a collection of vCards. One for each of your connections.
These vCards can then be optionally augmented by the Contact-Info of your
connections. You can then import these vCards to your usage environemnt (e.g.,
Emacs ebdb, MS Outlook Contacts, Google Contacts). You can then privately
tag/categorize your connections. For the equivalent of a "LinkedIn Post", I then
use another package called MTDT (Mail Templating and Distribution and Tracking)
to engage in mass communications with my LinkedIn connections through email
(outside of LinkedIn). This way my "posts" are not at the mercy of LinkedIn
algorithem.  This is what I call "LinkingOut".

The complete sources and instructions for using the myLinkedIn package are at:
https://github.com/bisos-pip/myLinkedIn.

After this overview post, I'll follow-up with a series of related posts, ending
with an Open Letter to Microsoft-LinkedIn asking them not to hinder our
"Business Cards Exchange" LinkedIn model. Here is a summary of those posts:

- myLinkedIn-Basic python Package:: Conversion of Connections.csv,
  Invitations.csv and messages.csv to vCards and maildir.

- myLinkedIn-Plus python Package:: Enhancement of myLinkedIn-Basic
  vCards by limited web-scraping of your own connections contact info.

- LinkingOut:: Importing of your vCards to your native usage environment and
  using them in combination with the MTDT package.

- Open Letter to Microsoft-LinkedIn:: Asking Microsoft to either permit limited
  web-scraping of myLinkedIn-Plus or to include complete contact-info in
  Basic_LinkedInDataExport.zip.

If you see merit in what I am proposing, please distribute this as widely as possible.

At your services,
